right now the meat industry on a scale
of many billions of animals is
castrating pigs for the convenience of
human beings do you really feel that
it's different to castrate a pig in
order to produce meat for human
consumption for human enjoyment than it
is to castrate a pig so that it can be a
household pet for human enjoyment I have
no difficulty whatsoever as a vegan in
saying to you that castrating a pig so
that it will be a better behaved house
pet so that it will not developed more
of the characteristics of a wild boar of
an adult male pig more of the aggressive
behaviors more the physical
characteristics etc I find that just as
immoral as castrating a pig so that it
will remain docile on a farm and so that
it will not develop the characteristics
that human beings do not want in an
animal raised to be slaughtered for meat
I see no contradiction in that I don't
see why this is beyond the absurdity of
speciesism I do not see why anyone who
is vegan would offer a moral
justification for castrating a pig for
human use in one scenario as opposed to
the other this whole conversation began
with my presenting the example of baby
pigs of cute baby pigs that are being
presented to vegans as a symbol of what
this movement is all about and I
explained why for me that's actually a
deeply problematic morally troubling
symbol for people to be rallying around
yes baby pigs can be cute but our
understanding of what a pig is should be
based on the behavior of pigs in the
wild wild boars whatever you want to say
and we should not be overlooking the
really serious moral questions that are
involved in taking a pig depriving it of
any access to its natural habitat any
opportunity to exercise its natural
behave
here's and indeed harming that pig in
some very real ways including castration
so that it will sleep next to the couch
while you're watching TV so that it will
happily run around the living room so
that it won't develop the type of
aggressive behaviour that would be
inconvenient for human beings mutilating
a pig for human convenience for human
entertainment for human enjoyment is in
some ways much more perverse than
mutilating a pig in order to produce
meat ok meat has some utility even
though I'm a vegan and I'm opposed to it
I can't deny that meat feeds people I
can deny that spending your time taking
a pig and forcing it to act like a toy I
can deny that that has any real utility
for human beings or for the animals
themselves I can question what is the
point of doing this to a pig and in many
ways what vegans are doing in castrating
a pig in order to raise it as a
household pet really can be seen as more
immoral and more perverse than for
example hunting in the woods killing a
wild boar and eating in at least that
wild boar knew what it was like to be
alive to be free to be wild before it
died and a pig taken away from its
parents castrated raised by human hands
fed by human hands spending its time in
a living room running around behind the
couch if we can overcome this hurdle of
seeing the difference between a pig
being castrated for slaughter and a pig
being castrated to be a household pet
why do we have such difficulty in
comparing the pig to a dog speciesism is
a deeply flawed concept it's a rarely
useful concept I do not think we can
make it the main or central concept of
veganism but
times its useful I can remember vegans
having t-shirts saying why do you love
one and kill the other directly
contrasting a pig to a dog well I am
asking the same question and vegans have
responded by offering the same excuses
that meat eaters offer arguing that a
dog is really intrinsically inherently
transcendentally very different from a
pig well I disagree and I disagree
because I'm vegan and for me this
disagreement actually is central to the
concept of veganism and the question of
what it means to be vegan maybe you
don't feel that way and maybe you have
an intelligent argument for what that is
however one other youtuber Swasey a
natural vegan to my eyes completely
failed to present any kind of convincing
argument on that front
now I've had many questions on this
topic and I've answered many questions
the videos exploring the issue now add
up to a couple of hours on my own
channel I think domestication pets etc
one question I think I've never been
asked by anyone on patreon is simply how
do I actually feel about Swasey what do
I actually think about our natural vegan
I think that's because regular viewers
in my channel already know without my
spelling it out I do think that a
natural vegan Swasey is stupid and
immoral and dishonest and I think that
her conduct on this issue in response to
the substance of the core of the issue
and in response to myself personally has
really demonstrated in a powerful way
for me just how stupid and immoral and
dishonest a person she is why would
anyone who is an ethical vegan present
the argument that a dog is not even
aware that it is castrated if you
castrate it and therefore it does not
suffer and therefore you as a human do
not do any harm to it in castrating the
dog
to me that argument is immoral and
dishonest and stupid if you genuinely
believe that animals are not harmed that
you do not do something immoral that you
are not harming an animal if for example
you kill it while the animal is
completely unaware
for example a gunshot that hits a wild
bird in the head a gunshot that
obliterates the skull of the bird so
quickly that the bird goes from being
alive to being dead immediately and that
bird managed to live in the wild live in
the forest live a natural life up to the
moment it died do you really think
there's nothing morally significant in
that act do you think there is nothing
significant in the difference between a
living bird and a dead one and the
decision and the action taken by human
being and doing that because the bird
may be unaware of it
secondly I do not accept the notion that
a dog a male dog could possibly be
unaware that it was castrated and I
mentioned that I have actually seen
studies on this and those studies may be
biased but among the very obvious
empirical data to consider is the fact
that male dogs literally lick their own
testicles they see them they smell them
they're aware of them they lick them it
may be disgusting but this is one of
many differences between human beings
and canines and yes dogs also have an
incredibly keen sense of smell
particularly for the hormones of their
own species because in the wild a large
part of their life has to do with
marking their territory smelling other
dogs recognizing other dogs knowing
their own scent recognizing their own
hormones the hormones of other dogs etc
okay the hormonal lives of dogs are
complex but whether they know it through
their eyes through their nose or with
their tongue it is totally laughable to
suggest that a male dog would be unaware
that it was castrated apart from and
this is secondary to the question of
whether or not you as a human being have
done something more have done harm to
the dog if it were on a
clearly dogs are aware and why are you
doing it why would this be different
from castrating a pig on a farm or
castrating a pig to make it into a pet
I think this justification
I think it's immoral and I think it's
dishonest and I think it's dumb and as a
vegan I feel no hesitation in sharing
that opinion with you um
in reality what people want to know is
how dare I be so honest about someone
who did support me uh in a conflict with
durianrider with another vegan a vegan
who threatened to beat me up
threatened up put me in prison take me
to the cops a vegan who defame me and
claim those wife beater and so on let me
turn that question around how would my
response to this be different and what
would you think of me if instead it were
durianrider
who were offering arguments that were
from my perspective so immoral so
dishonest so stupid as what Swayze has
had to say on this issue of
domestication of animals as pets
castration is specific I just mean she's
been equally I mean the flip side of
this argument talk about animals being
feral she just very lazily suggests that
anyone who disagrees with her is
indulging in pseudoscience that it's
pseudoscience to claim that domesticated
pigs can turn feral can become feral
pigs can revert to wild behaviors and
within a couple of generations to a
remarkable extent even recover their
wild physical characteristics said it's
not pseudoscience it's time if you have
any real-world experience with feral
pigs there every continent that human
beings and habits now has feral pigs
because pigs do escape from POC farms
they do go to the forest they do form
packs again and start all those
behaviors again that you can see this in
United States you can see it in
Australia you can see it here in Asia
I had fan mail from someone in Southeast
Asia who would have been attacked by
feral pigs and was writing to me saying
I can't believe these
vegans have no idea what wild pigs are
like or what feral pigs are like etc you
know kids counter-arguments like oh well
you know if domesticated pigs escaped
into the forest not all of them survived
let me tell you something
zero survived okay the mortality rate on
planet earth is a hundred percent a
hundred percent of animals in the wild
died sooner or later immortality is not
an option and yes life in the wild for
wild animals is nasty brutish and short
yes they live in fear they hunt one
another
they roam they explore life for a wild
animal in its natural habitat is in no
way comparable to life sleeping next to
the couch while a human being watches TV
being fed by human hands no they're not
comparable they're profoundly different
and I think I'm the only person this
debate between myself and entropy who's
really interested in reflecting on what
that difference is and I'm not
interested in getting into the sort of
self-deception of morally justifying and
act like castration least of all when
that castration is simply for the
entertainment of human beings to make a
pet to make an animal more docile to
deprive it of its adult behaviors to the
private of its hormones to the private
of its instincts to the private of the
adult male domineering behaviors that
animal would have whether we're talking
about a pig be a cute baby pig growing
up into an ugly scary wild boar or a
feral boar or what have you or whether
or not we're talking about dogs and cats
having their will broken being reduced
to playthings for for human
entertainment okay I hope you guys get
the sense that for me in the beginning
in the middle of the end this is not a
trivial issue the ethical issue is not
trivial it's not incidental to it's not
peripheral to veganism for me it gets at
many fundamental questions and if during
a rider had said the same things that a
natural vegan did Swasey did I'm very
likely I would have made a very similar
video or series of views this might say
it's not one video adds up to a lot of
footage if you guys aren't aware quite a
few videos dealing with this and among
the most ridiculous things unnatural
begins done is to pretend
that I never talked about the subsidies
that I only said her comments were
beneath contempt and that I wasn't
respond well her her perspective is
beneath contempt
but I have now given a very substantive
series of videos talking about this
issue from front to back from many
different angles dealing with different
elements and dealing with some of the
intelligent questions that viewers sent
me viewers like you people on patreon
people on this YouTube channel they
didn't rich this discourse and many of
you guys have made comments on this that
were much more intelligent than anything
unnatural vegan said and that's why I
responded them so I responded to you
guys not to that's your ticket had to
say we all have to make hard decisions
practical real-life daily decisions
about the meaning of life what we want
to do for me in this school I'm
currently in school if you don't know
and on the internet on this strange
demi-monde of vegan youtube or
what-have-you whatever part of the
internet you inhabit if I treated a
natural vegan differently from the way I
treat durianrider I would feel dishonest
I would feel immoral I would feel stupid
if Doreen Ryder presented the same
stupid immoral argument that unnatural
vegan had presented I would have
criticized during Ryder in the same way
and I do not regret at all that I
brought a really honest discussion of
one of the most taboo issues in 21st
century veganism right to the fore I
think a lot more good than harm has come
out of this bizarre dispute between
myself and unnatural vegan